hey this is Ralph and in this video I
want to show you how you can create a
responsive layout to go from a two
column layout to a one column layout
I've got this web page set up and like a
lot of web pages we've got a two column
layout with a header and footer and it's
responsive even at a large-scale forum
and then it expands and contracts notice
the sidebar is fixed but when we go to a
smaller device with a be at a smaller
tablet or smartphone I want to change
this two column layout to a one column
layout so the navigation of the sidebar
that contains the vertical nav which is
formerly on the left is now across the
top so let's take care of this now of
course I've already got the page set up
but I want to delete a big chunk of it
see we can start this from scratch so
I'm actually going to just delete all of
this right in here and that kind of
leaves us with nothing that's really
custom I am going to go ahead and leave
all these styles and just quick little
overview of course I got my very
frequently used reset rule and I do have
some controls on the outer wrapper of
course every page you make from this day
forward of course gonna have that parent
wrapper parent container so I've got
mine set to 95 percent margin zero picks
Auto which centers it I did put in max
with the 1440 on because I don't want it
to stretch too wide for people to have
really wide display desktops and a few
other basic aesthetic characteristics
just to make it easier to see font
issues headline issues nothing too fancy
now I've got a couple CSS rules here
that are manipulating the look and
layout of my navigation menu now I don't
want to really go over those in this
video there's you know we'll do another
video on navigation menus there but
there's nothing tricky ok I'm basically
taking an unordered list and making the
anchors block so that they appear to be
a little rectangle buttons so to speak
so now I want to start with my styling
for my large format all the styles up
here are the generic kind of things and
they're gonna be consistent amongst
smartphones and wide screens so now I
want to put some styling that's gonna be
unique to my larger format and I don't
even need anything custom
like an apt media rule I can just get
right into it with well I'm I've got my
sidebar and my sidebar is gonna have a
width of 200 pixels and I'm going to
float it to the left because I want it
to be on the left side I'm gonna put a
little men height in here
I have about 500 pixels just to make it
easier for us to see and of course I'm
gonna do a background color once again
just so it's really easy for us to see
and there is my sidebar and of course
after my sidebar I've gotta have my main
content and my main content doesn't need
a width it's naturally gonna be as wide
as it can but I will go ahead and set
the min height 500 pixels and I'll give
it a background color there we go and
that will be enough for you to be able
to see some stuff so I can have a Ron
run launches some Firefox and there is
my layout of course got the navigation
menu already styled but those two basic
rules that I created set up the side by
side two columns two column layout
there's my sidebar and there's my main
content the header controls by the way
we're up here on the main styling I'm
not gonna do anything fancy with them
I've just got a min height in the
background color nothing complicated at
all so that's my two column layout now I
want to set up the styling this is the
tricky part of course this is the
styling for our smart phones and small
tablets we do need to tell the the
browser that this is gonna be at media
screen and max with it I'm going to do
what am I gonna do here I'll do seven
hundred and ninety nine pixels so
basically what this means and then we do
an opening curly braces closing curly
braces so my web page is gonna look like
this for 800 pixels all the way up to
1440 which is the max width that I've
set but when the device goes smaller
than 800 pixels who knows that could be
around there that's when I want it to
switch from the two column layout to the
one column layout so anything smaller
than 800 are gonna get these
characteristics and I just need to
manipulate those key elements so I've
got my sidebar and my sidebar is now
gonna be
with 100% I have to negate the former
200 pixel wide width of my sidebar so
it's gonna have a width 100% and it's
gonna be a float none before it was
floating to the left now I'm gonna say
no float I'm gonna put a little men
height on there of a hundred pixels men
but it's not going to stay that small I
want it to be able to expand when
necessary give it a little background
color and I'll go ahead and do some 99
and I'm gonna put in overflow:hidden now
the reason I'm putting overflow:hidden
on this new sidebar which really
shouldn't be called a sidebar anymore
anymore is because I'm gonna be floating
my list item my anchor elements my menu
items and the overflow:hidden will help
my will help this container expand and
contract to accommodate this floating
elements now I'm also gonna go to my
main content and I'm gonna set it to men
height 500 pixels give it a little
background color so we can nice and see
it takes care of that and last but not
least my list items these are the list
items for my navigation menu I'm gonna
set their widths to 50% so they're gonna
be half the light at the screen there
and I'm gonna float them to the left so
this way they can expand and contract a
little bit and for the anchor tags a lot
of the control is already set set but
I'm gonna do 90% which means 90% of the
50% list items my anchors are inside of
the list items do a little margin zero
picks Auto this will Center my anchor
tags within the list items save this and
let's check it out go ahead and refresh
the browser and you'll see as I scale it
down a little bit smaller we get to that
800 pixels and then it pops over sidebar
is now a top bar you notice my anchor
tags are expanding and tracting within
those size sized list items alright so
that is our responsive page two column
layout to a one column layout and check
the video description you can find a
link to this demo file